# Select representative edges 
This pipeline selects one representative edge per variant allele and remove redundant edges from normalized edge-by-sample matrices 
generate in step 2. 

The pipeline outputs:    
A representative edge list file, with one edge per row.     
A filterd normalzied edge-by-sample matrix containging only the representative edges.     


## Pipeline overview
This pipeline performs the following steps:

0. split the genome-wide raw and normalized depth matrices into per-chromosome gzipped files.
1. build the pangenome graph and decompose it into biconnected-component subgraphs.
2. apply the filter to each subgraph and identify representative edges.
3. concatenate all per-subgraph representative (independent) edge lists
4. subset each chromosome's normalized edge depth matrix down to only the representative edges.

## How to run the pipeline
```
nextflow run redundancy_filter.nf -profile mccleary \
    --edges      hprc-v2.0-mc-grch38.edges.txt \
    --depth      ../2_normalization/results/all_sample.hprc-v2.0-mc-grch38.edge_depth.txt \
    --norm_depth ../2_normalization/results/all_sample.hprc-v2.0-mc-grch38.edge_depth_norm.txt \
    --gfa_dir    /path/to/per_chrom_gfa \
    --scripts_dir scripts \
    --outdir     results
```
Add `-resume` to resume from cached work after a failed or interrupted run.

## Required input data
| Parameter | Input type | Description |
|:----|:------|:----------|
| --edges | Edge list | Tab-separated file containing chromosome and edge IDs. <br>This is the same edge list file used in Step 1.|
| --depth | Edge-by-sample matrix | Raw edge-depth matrix generated in Step 2. |
| --norm_depth | Edge-by-sample matrix | Normalized edge-depth matrix generated in Step 2. |
| --gfa_dir | Directory | Directory containing per-chromosome pangenome graph files in GFA format. | 
| --scripts_dir |	Scripts directory	| Directory containing the Python scripts used in this step. |

Note:    
--edges: This is the same edge list file used in Step 1.    
--gfa_dir: This directory should contain one GFA file per chromosome. Files should be named using the format chr1.gfa, chr2.gfa, ..., chr22.gfa.

## Output file
The pipeline produces the following outputs:     
1. A text file containing one representative edge per row.
Example:
```
>105404484>105404486
>105407282>105407291
```
2. Filtered normalized edge-by-sample matrix    
A normalized edge-depth matrix filtered to retain only the representative edges identified by this pipeline. 
This file is generated by subsetting the normalized edge-by-sample matrix from Step 2.





